## 经济学三类问题

1. how people make decisions
2. how people interact
3. how the economy as a whole works


## 经济学十大原理

1. people face `tradeoffs`
2. the `cost` of something is what you give up to get it
3. rational people think at the `margin`
4. people respond to `incentives`
5. `trade` can make everyone better off
6. `markets` are usually a good way to organize economic activity
7. `governments` can sometimes improve market outcomes.
8. the standard of living depends on a country's `production`
9. pirces rise when the government prints too much money
10. society faces a short-run tradeoff between `inflation and unemployment`


### how people make decisions

1. people face `tradeoffs`

>There is no such thing as a free lunch.

To get one thing, we usually have to give up another thing.

- Food and clothing
- Leisure time and work (earnings)
- Guns and butter

2. the `cost` of something is what you give up to get it

The opportunity cost of an item is what you give up to obtain that item.

- 机会成本取决于你所面临的其它选择
- 在很多情况下,某些机会成本容易被忽略

3. rational people think at the `margin`

- People make optimal decisions by comparing costs and benefits at the margin.
- marginal changes are small incremental adjustment to a existing plan of action.

- 边际成本与平均成本 marginal cost and average cost
- 边际收益 marginal benefit and total benefit


### how people interact

4. people respond to `incentives`

- Marginal changes in costs or benefits motivate people to respond.
- The decision to choose one alternative over another occurs when tha alernative's marginal benefits exceed the marginal costs.

人们有了保障后,可能肆无忌惮,从而加深了危险程度

5. `trade` can make everyone better off

- People gain from their ability to trade with one another.
- Competition results in gains from trading.
- Trade allows people to specialize in  what they do best.

6. `markets` are usually a good way to organize economic activity

- In a market economy, households decide what to buy and who to work for.
- Firms decide who to hire and what to produce.

7. `governments` can sometimes improve market outcomes.

- Market failure occurs when the marker fails to allocate resourses efficiently.
- Market failure may be caused by an `externality` ,which is the impact of one persion firm's actions on the well-being of a bystander.
- Market failure may be caused by `market power`,which is the ability of a single person or firm to unduly influence market prices.

### how the economy as a whole works

8. the standard of living depends on a country's `production`

Higher productivity => Higer standard of living

- Standard of living may be measured in different ways.
	- By comparing personal incomes.
	- By comparing the total market value of a nation's production.
- Almost all variations in living standards are explained by differences in countries' productivities.
- Productivity is the amount of goods and services produced from each hour of a worker's time.

9. pirces rise when the government prints too much money

- Inflation is an increase in the overall level of prices in the economy.
	- One cause of inflation is the growth in the quantity of money.
	- When the government creates large quantities of money, the value of money falls. 
10. society faces a short-run tradeoff between `inflation` and `unemployment`

- The `Phillps Curve` illustrates

